# Hackillinois-2026

## Description
This is a tool to help practice transcribing English orthography to the symbols of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). More specifically, this tool is intended to be used in conjunction with Standard American English; the best use case would be to help grow a sense of familiarity with the sounds of Standard American English. Sourced from the Carnegie-Mellon University Pronouncing Dictionary, the possible words include names, places, and words present in the dictionary. There may be more than one correct answer. Once 'Reveal Answer' is clicked or a correct answer is submitted, the user must generate a new word to continue. Response must not include stress notation or punctuation.

## Credits
The library of words database and IPA conversion logic functionality in this project are based on the English-to-IPA Python repository by Michael Phillips: https://github.com/mphilli/English-to-IPA. The words database is collected from the Carnegie-Mellon University Pronouncing Dictionary.

The IPA keyboard design was configured using the repository by Weston Ruter: https://github.com/westonruter/ipa-chart/.


## AI Disclosure
All final concept generation, project design, and core implementation were human-generated by the frontend and backend teams. All suggestions for debugging made by OpenAI are thoroughly reviewed by all members of the team before being pushed to main.

## Team
    Frontend:
    - Emily Masters (emilyem555)
    Backend:
    - Ally (asted-real)
    - Jazmin Uribe (jazminuribe)

## Website setup
    1. Copy and clone the repository: https://github.com/emilyem555/Hackillinois-2026
    2. cd HackIllinois-2026
    3. Install python and dependencies
    4. Create python virual environment
        python3 -m venv .venv
        source .venv/bin/activate
    5. Install flask
    6. Run Flask
        cd phonetiquette
        python3 app.py
    7. Start React
        cd IPA-site
        npm install
        npm start
